Let's start with expressions more precisely logical expressions so logical expression is just something
that can be true or false.
So for example 5 is smaller than free.
You can obviously see that it is complete nonsense but it is still a logical statement that is false
right and that her expression could be for example.
My father is 50 years old because it can either be true or false.
There is nothing between no third option.
Right.
And since we care about the form and not content we will call all statements by letters from A to Z.
And since then our natural language we are talking using these statements and connectives.
So in order for us to be able to transfer a sentence into logic a formula we need a logical connectives.
And thankfully there is only five of them.
So the first one is negation.
It looks like this.
And it represents not in our spoken word logic a formula that looks like this negation of A where A
represents Stakman that since instead of a we can put any statement remember we care about the form
not about content bad we know that it can either be true or false.
And since we are lazy we represent true by one and false by zero.
So if A is true negation of true is false and if A is zero negation of false is true.
So that means 1.
So one negation does it kind of flips the logical value in simple words.
OK the next one is or and if you think about it when you talk you use or all the time and logical formula
it looks like we.
So A or B looks like this.
If A and B is zero.
This logical formula will result in two thoughts that if A is false and B is true this formula will
result in two.
True if A is true and B is false we get true.
And if A is true and B is true we get true.
So Or is true if at least one of its operand is true.
And if you think about it it kind of makes sense and it corresponds with or in our natural language
and since we have or we also have an and looks like this.
So it is kind of a without the line in middle.
So A and B looks like this.
And when A is false and B is false A and B will result in two thoughts.
When A is false and B is true we get falls again.
When A is true and B is false.
We get still false that when A is true and B is true we get true.
So in order for and to be true we need a and b to be both true.
You can think of it as multiplication one times one gives you one.
OK let's look at another one.
The next one is pretty simple and kind of straightforward.
It is equivalence sometimes known as logical biconditional.
And it is true if operands have same value.
So if they and B is false we get true because they are equal.
If A and B is true we get true.
Otherwise we get false.
So you can think about it as an equal sign.
Zero is equal to zero.
But zero is not equal to 1.
Right.
The last one is implication and I kind of show you implication in previous lecture.
But I want to talk more about its purpose in this one.
So it looks like this as you already know.
And if a is false then no matter what B is we get true.
But if a is true and B is false we get false.
And if a is true and B is also true we get true so this one is not consistent and you might thing that
is kind of weird.
And I think the best way for you to understand implication is through this sentence if it's raining
than it's cloudy.
So a is raining and B it's cloudy and let's go through all the logical values.
They can have.
So first one is that a is false and B is also false.
So if it's not raining then it's not cloudy.
And that is OK.
That makes sense right.
And it is true.
Next one says that if it's not raining then it's cloudy and that also makes sense right.
You can have clouds without rain but now it gets interesting.
If it is raining then it is not cloudy and this doesn't make sense right.
Because in order to rain you need clouds.
So this is false.
And last one says if it is raining it is cloudy and doesn't make sense so it is true.
OK.
That is pretty much it for this lecture.
We'll play more with these in next lectures.
So if you have any questions feel free to ask and I will see you next time.